Add the Custom SSL certificate renewal process (#2151)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_renewing-a-custom-ssl-certificate-proxy.adoc

Reviewer: Please rename the file from "proc_renewing-a-custom-ssl-certificate-proxy.adoc" to "proc_renewing-a-custom-ssl-certificate-on-smart-proxy.adoc" so it "matches" the title/anchor.

Reviewer 2: @mjivraja this comment needs addressing still

Reviewer: In general: maybe use "SmartProxyServer" instead of "external SmartProxies"? IMHO it's always a good idea to either say "ProjectServer" or "SmartProxyServer" unless it's really about smart proxy functionality. In this case, it looks at first glance like two different procedures for ProjectServer and SmartProxyServers

Author: Right :+1:

> [id="Renewing_a_Custom_SSL_Certificate_Proxy_{context}"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[id="Renewing_a_Custom_SSL_Certificate_{smart-proxy-context}_{context}"]
```

= Renewing a {customssltitle} certificate on {SmartProxyServer}

[NOTE]
====

> If your {SmartProxy} is already configured with CA-signed SSL certificates and has been renewed by the same Certificate Authority, there is no need to replace the consumer package `katello-ca-consumer-latest.noarch.rpm` on clients registered to {SmartProxy}.

Reviewer: "there is no need" > "you do not have to ..."

Reviewer: maybe also "SmartProxyServer"?

Author: Agree :+1:

.Prerequisites

> You must create a new Certificate Signing Request and send it to the Certificate Authority to sign the certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You must create a new Certificate Signing Request and send it to the Certificate Authority to sign the certificate.
```

> This is because you require a new CA certificate for a client to authenticate or communicate with External {SmartProxies}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is because you require a new CA certificate for a client to authenticate or communicate with external {SmartProxies}.
```

====

Use this procedure to renew a {customssl} certificate signed by a Certificate Authority for your {SmartProxyServer}.
The `{foreman-installer}` command, which the `{certs-generate}` command returns, is unique to each {SmartProxyServer}.

> Do not use the same command on more than one {SmartProxyServer}.

Reviewer: Maybe "You cannot use..."

Author: :+1:

> .Prerequisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Prerequisite
```

List only contains one element.

----
# katello-certs-check \
-c _/root/{smart-proxy-context}_cert/New_{smart-proxy-context}_cert.pem_ \
-k _/root/{smart-proxy-context}_cert/{smart-proxy-context}_cert_key.pem_ \
-b _/root/{smart-proxy-context}_cert/ca_cert_bundle.pem_
----
+

> If you set a wildcard value `*` for the certificate’s Common Name `CN =` in the `/root/{smart-proxy-context}_cert/openssl.cnf` configuration file, you must add the `-t {smart-proxy-context}` option to the `katello-certs-check` command.

Reviewer 2: Where does this come from? Do we document setting this wildcard somewhere?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the CN has a wildcard value, you must add the `-t {smart-proxy-context}` option to the `katello-certs-check` command.
```

Otherwise I think this will confuse users. The use of `/root/capsule_cert/openssl.cnf` is *only* if a user follows the procedure for creating their own custom certificates locally (which is likely a very rare scenario). But users could create wildcard certificates through their provider as well and this option is needed in any of those cases.

Author: Applied your suggested change :+1:

> . On {ProjectServer} validate the {customssl} certificate input files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Validate the {customssl} certificate input files on your {ProjectServer}:
```

IMHO either a comma after ProjectServer; or move it to the end of the sentence.

Author: Addressed :+1:

. Use the following `{certs-generate}` commands to generate the certificate archive file for your {SmartProxyServer}.
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
{certs-generate} --foreman-proxy-fqdn "{smartproxy-example-com}" \
--certs-tar  "_/root/<certificate dir>/{smartproxy-example-com}-certs.tar_" \
--server-cert "_/root/<certificate dir>/New-{smart-proxy-context}_cert.pem_" \
--server-key "_/root/<certificate dir>/{smart-proxy-context}_cert_key.pem_" \

> --server-ca-cert "_/root/<certificate dir>/ca_cert_bundle.pem_" \

Reviewer: Please switch from `<some text>` to `_My_Directory_` or similar. Maybe `_My_Certificates_`?

Author: Definitely :+1:

> 
> . Use the following `{certs-generate}` commands to generate the certificate archive file for your {SmartProxyServer}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Use the following `{certs-generate}` commands to generate the certificate archive file for your {SmartProxyServer}:
```

+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
{certs-generate} --foreman-proxy-fqdn "{smartproxy-example-com}" \
--certs-tar  "_/root/_My_Certificates_/{smartproxy-example-com}-certs.tar_" \
--server-cert "_/root/_My_Certificates_/New-{smart-proxy-context}_cert.pem_" \
--server-key "_/root/_My_Certificates_/{smart-proxy-context}_cert_key.pem_" \
--server-ca-cert "_/root/_My_Certificates_/ca_cert_bundle.pem_" \
--certs-update-server
----

. On {ProjectServer}, copy the certificate archive file to your {SmartProxyServer}:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----

> scp _/root/{smart-proxy-context}_cert/{smartproxy-example-com}-certs.tar_ \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# scp _/root/{smart-proxy-context}_cert/{smartproxy-example-com}-certs.tar_ \
```

you're also missing the `# ` prefix for commands in other code blocks.

Author: Yes!

----

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

. Retain a copy of the `{foreman-installer}` command that the `{certs-generate}` command returns for deploying the certificate to your {SmartProxyServer}.

> . On {SmartProxyServer}, to deploy the certificate, enter the `{foreman-installer}` command that the {certs-generate} command returns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Deploy the certificate on your {SmartProxyServer} using the `{foreman-installer}` command returned by the `{certs-generate}` command:
```

Author: Applied!

+
When network connections or ports to {Project} are not yet open, you can set the `--foreman-proxy-register-in-foreman` option to _false_ to prevent {SmartProxy} from attempting to connect to {Project} and reporting errors.
Run the installer again with the above option set to _true_ when the network and firewalls are correctly configured.

> . On {ProjectServer}, copy the certificate archive file to your {SmartProxyServer}:

Reviewer 2: Users need to do this before we talk about the installer command in the step above.

Author: Addressed :+1:

+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
scp _/root/{smart-proxy-context}_cert/{smartproxy-example-com}-certs.tar_ \
----

. On {SmartProxyServer}, to deploy the certificate, enter the `{foreman-installer}` command that the `{certs-generate}` command returns.
+
If network connections or ports to {Project} are not yet open, you can set the `--foreman-proxy-register-in-foreman` option to _false_ to prevent {SmartProxy} from attempting to connect to {Project} and reporting errors.
Run the installer again with this option set to _true_ when the network and firewalls are correctly configured.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Do not delete the certificate archive file after you deploy the certificate.
It is required, for example, when upgrading {SmartProxyServer}.
====

> [NOTE]

Reviewer 2: For both Satellite and Capsule sections, I think we should put these notes at the top. Changing the CA is a big deal and users should be `very` aware of that before heading down this path.

Author: Addressed :+1:

[id="Renewing_a_Custom_SSL_Certificate_Proxy_{context}"]
= Renewing a {customssltitle} certificate on {SmartProxyServer}

Use this procedure to renew a {customssl} certificate signed by a Certificate Authority for your {SmartProxyServer}.
The `{foreman-installer}` command, which the `{certs-generate}` command returns, is unique to each {SmartProxyServer}.
Do not use the same command on more than one {SmartProxyServer}.

.Prerequisites
Before renewing a custom server certificate for {SmartProxyServer}, ensure that your {Project} and {SmartProxies} meet the following conditions:

* {ProjectServer} is configured with a custom certificate.
* {SmartProxyServer} is registered to {ProjectServer}.

> * The {SmartProxyServer} packages are installed.

Reviewer 2: I think we could drop this, if we are renewing certificates then the assumption stated or otherwise is that the Smart-proxy server is installed correctly and operating connected to the Foreman/Satellite.

Author: Addressed :+1:

.Procedure
You must create a new Certificate Signing Request and send it to the Certificate Authority to sign the certificate.
In return, you will receive the {SmartProxyServer} certificate and CA bundle.

> You must keep the {SmartProxyServer} SSL certificates on the {ProjectServer} by creating a folder and verifying them through the `katello-certs-check` command.

Reviewer: Maybe mark them as ".Prerequisites"?

> To renew a {customssl} certificate for your {SmartProxyServer}, complete the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

this IMHO does not add any more value if we have a clear heading and introduction.

Author: Addressed :+1:

. On {ProjectServer} validate the {customssl} certificate input files:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# katello-certs-check \
-c _/root/capsule_cert/New_capsule_cert.pem_ \
-k _/root/capsule_cert/capsule_cert_key.pem_ \
-b _/root/capsule_cert/ca_cert_bundle.pem_
----
+

> If you set a wildcard value `*` for the certificate’s Common Name `CN =` in the `/root/capsule_cert/openssl.cnf` configuration file, you must add the `-t capsule` option to the `katello-certs-check` command.

Reviewer: for capsule, you can generally use "smart-proxy-context" for branding and to prevent whitespace: https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/blob/master/guides/common/attributes-satellite.adoc#L95

> . Use the following `capsule-certs-generate` commands to generate the certificate archive file for your {SmartProxyServer}.

Reviewer: there's also an attribute for that: https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/blob/master/guides/common/attributes-satellite.adoc#L39

+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
{certs-generate} --foreman-proxy-fqdn "{smartproxy-example-com}" \
--certs-tar  "_/root/<certificate dir>/{smartproxy-example-com}-certs.tar_" \
--server-cert "_/root/<certificate dir>/New-capsule_cert.pem_" \
--server-key "_/root/<certificate dir>/capsule_cert_key.pem_" \
--server-ca-cert "_/root/<certificate dir>/ca_cert_bundle.pem_" \
--certs-update-server
----

. Copy the latest _{smartproxy-example-com}-certs.tar_ file to the {SmartProxyServer} `/root` directory.
. Retain a copy of the `satellite-installer` command that the `{certs-generate}` command returns for deploying the certificate to your {SmartProxyServer}.
. On {SmartProxyServer}, to deploy the certificate, enter the `{foreman-installer}` command that the {certs-generate} command returns.
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----

> {foreman-installer} --scenario capsule --foreman-proxy-content-parent-fqdn "{foreman-example-com}" \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{installer-scenario-smartproxy} \
--foreman-proxy-content-parent-fqdn "{foreman-example-com}" \
```

Please put each arg/param on a separate line in alphabetical order. See also https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/blob/master/guides/common/attributes-satellite.adoc#L64
